
11.6.1 Storing searches
-----------------------

The first application of custom searches is the definition of keyboard
shortcuts for frequently used searches, either creating an agenda
buffer, or a sparse tree (the latter covering of course only the current
buffer).

   Custom commands are configured in the variable
‘org-agenda-custom-commands’.  You can customize this variable, for
example by pressing ‘C’ from the agenda dispatcher (see *note Agenda
Dispatcher::).  You can also directly set it with Emacs Lisp in the
Emacs init file.  The following example contains all valid agenda views:

     (setq org-agenda-custom-commands
           '(("x" agenda)
             ("y" agenda*)
             ("w" todo "WAITING")
             ("W" todo-tree "WAITING")
             ("u" tags "+boss-urgent")
             ("v" tags-todo "+boss-urgent")
             ("U" tags-tree "+boss-urgent")
             ("f" occur-tree "\\<FIXME\\>")
             ("h" . "HOME+Name tags searches") ;description for "h" prefix
             ("hl" tags "+home+Lisa")
             ("hp" tags "+home+Peter")
             ("hk" tags "+home+Kim")))

   The initial string in each entry defines the keys you have to press
after the dispatcher command in order to access the command.  Usually
this is just a single character, but if you have many similar commands,
you can also define two-letter combinations where the first character is
the same in several combinations and serves as a prefix key(1).  The
second parameter is the search type, followed by the string or regular
expression to be used for the matching.  The example above will
therefore define:

‘x’
     as a global search for agenda entries planned(2) this week/day.

‘y’
     as the same search, but only for entries with an hour specification
     like ‘[h]h:mm’—think of them as appointments.

‘w’
     as a global search for TODO entries with ‘WAITING’ as the TODO
     keyword.

‘W’
     as the same search, but only in the current buffer and displaying
     the results as a sparse tree.

‘u’
     as a global tags search for headlines tagged ‘boss’ but not
     ‘urgent’.

‘v’
     The same search, but limiting it to headlines that are also TODO
     items.

‘U’
     as the same search, but only in the current buffer and displaying
     the result as a sparse tree.

‘f’
     to create a sparse tree (again, current buffer only) with all
     entries containing the word ‘FIXME’.

‘h’
     as a prefix command for a ‘HOME’ tags search where you have to
     press an additional key (‘l’, ‘p’ or ‘k’) to select a name (Lisa,
     Peter, or Kim) as additional tag to match.

   Note that ‘*-tree’ agenda views need to be called from an Org buffer
as they operate on the current buffer only.

   ---------- Footnotes ----------

   (1) You can provide a description for a prefix key by inserting a
cons cell with the prefix and the description.

   (2) _Planned_ means here that these entries have some planning
information attached to them, like a time-stamp, a scheduled or a
deadline string.  See ‘org-agenda-entry-types’ on how to set what
planning information is taken into account.
